Paper: Variational Autoencoders For Semi-Supervised Deep Metric Learning (#695)
scipy-conference/scipy_proceedings: papers/safir_zain_22/main.rst

handwritten digits. The second dataset we use is the organ OrganAMNIST
dataset from MedMNIST v2 (:cite:`medmnistv2`). This dataset
contains 2D slices from computed tomography images from the Liver Tumor
Segmentation Benchmark – the labels correspond to the classification of
11 different body organs. The decision to use a second dataset was
motivated because the as the claims are tested over more datasets, the
results supporting the claims become more generalizable. The decision to
use the OrganAMNIST dataset specifically is motivated in part due to the
the Quinn Research Group working on similar tasks for biomedical imaging
(:cite:`Zain2020TowardsAU`). It is also motivated in part
because OrganAMNIST is a more difficult dataset, at least for a the
classfication task, as the leading accuracy for MNIST is .9991
(:cite:`DBLP:journals/corr/abs-2008-10400`) while the
leading accuracy for OrganAMNIST is .951
(:cite:`medmnistv2`). The MNIST and OrganAMNIST datasets are
similar in dimensionality (1 x 28 x 28), number of samples (60,000 and
58,850, respectively) and in that they are both greyscale.

.. figure:: figs/cropped_datasets.png

>    :scale: 45%

Reviewer: I'm not sure that docutils knows how to handle this line? Here's what I'm seeing from the server logs:

```
raise SystemMessage(msg, level)\ndocutils.utils.SystemMessage: <string>:457: (ERROR/3) Error in \"figure\" directive:\ninvalid option block.\n\n.. figure:: figs/cropped_datasets.png\n   :scale: 45%\n   :figclass: w\n   :align: center\n   Sample images from the MNIST (left) and OrganAMNIST of MedMNIST (right) datasets\n\nError building paper /tmp/tmp430tsinc/papers/safir_zain_22. Aborting.\n[X]
```

   :figclass: w
   :align: center

>    Sample images from the MNIST (left) and OrganAMNIST of MedMNIST (right) datasets

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

Sample images from the MNIST (left) and OrganAMNIST of MedMNIST (right) datasets
```

The formatting of this line seems to be the source of the error that @deniederhut posted above.

percentages of 0.01 and 0.1 correspond to 6 and 60 labelled samples respectively), the DML Autoencoder severely
outperforms the DML model. However, when the number of labelled samples increases (the partial labels
percentage of 10 correspond to 6000 labelled samples respectively), the DML model significantly 
outperforms the DML Autoencoder. This trend is not too surprising, as when there is sufficient data to train
unsupervised methods and insufficient data to train supervised method, as is the case for the 0.01 and 0.1
partial label percentages, the unsupervised method will likely perform better.

The data looks to show that the claim that adding a reconstruction loss to a DML system can improve
the quality of clustering in the latent representations on a semi-supervised dataset when there are small
amounts (roughly less than 100 samples) of labelled data and a sufficient quantity of unlabelled data.
But an important caveat is that it is not convincing that the DML Autoencoder effectively combined
the unsupervised and supervised losses to create a superior model, as a plain autoencoder (i.e. the DML

> Autoencoder with α = 1) outperforms the DML for the partial labels percentage of or less than 0.1% and

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Autoencoder with :math:`\alpha = 1`) outperforms the DML for the partial labels percentage of or less than 0.1% and
```

We have trained a seperate combined VAE and DML model which trains on both the unsupervised and supervised loss
each epoch instead of alternating between the two each epoch.
In the results for this model, we see that an alpha value of over zero (i.e. incorporating both the supervised metric loss into the
overall MVAE loss function) can help improve performance especially among lower dimensionalities.
Given our analysis of the data, we see that incorporating the DML loss to the VAE is potentially
helpful, but only when training the unsupervised and supervised losses jointly. Even in that case, it is
unclear whether the MVAE performs better than the corresponding DML model even if it does perform
better than the corresponding VAE model. 

.. figure:: figs/claim_3_graph.PNG
   :scale: 45%
   :figclass: w
   :align: center
   
   Graph of reconstruction loss (componenet of unsupervised loss) of MVAE across epochs. The
   unsupervised loss does not converge despite being trained on each epoch.
   
.. figure:: figs/claim_3_table.PNG
   :scale: 45%
   :figclass: w
   :align: center
   
   Table 4: Experiments performed on MVAE architecture across fully labelled MNIST dataset that trains

>    on objective function L = LU + γ ∗LS on fully supervised dataset. The best results for the classification

Reviewer 2: maybe this?
```suggestion
   on objective function :math:`L = LU + \gamma * LS` on fully supervised dataset. The best results for the classification
```

For claim 1, while the DML Autoencoder outperforms the DML for
semisupervised datasets with small amounts of labelled data, it’s 
peformance is not consistently much better than that of a plain
autoencoder which uses no labelled data. For claim 2, each of the DML models with
an added prior performed extremely poorly, near or at the level of the null model.
For claim 3, we see the same extremely poor performance from the MVAE models.

In the future, it would be worthwhile to evaluate these claims using a different training routine. We have
stated previously that perhaps the extremely poor performance of the DML with a prior and MVAE models 
may be due to the training regimen of alternating on training against a supervised and unsupervised loss.
Further research could look to develop or compare several different training regimens. One alternative
would simply be to keep alternating between losses but at the level of each batch instead of each epoch.
Another alternative, specifically for the MVAE, may be first training DML on labelled data, training a
GMM on it’s outputs, and then using the GMM as the prior distribution for the VAE. Grosnit et al.

> (:citeyear:`grosnit2021high`) has defined a more complex training routines to balance the DML and unsupervised loss. If this

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
(:cite:`grosnit2021high`) has defined a more complex training routines to balance the DML and unsupervised loss. If this
```
